so as I mentioned the album classes uses a
list to store the songs and provides a
method the add song method that we've
create for adding more songs or
adding songs to the list and it's also got a field for the artist and we
got an error at the moment and that's because we
haven't created that class so we are going
to be doing that in this video now having an artists object
stored in the album object can cause
problems because the artist class will also hold the
list of the artists publish albums but
I'm gonna talk more about that when we've seen
the artist class now one thing worth
mentioning that before we get to that is
that the error in the doc string and that is up
here you can see that if we flag is it says unresolved reference album_name so this
really highlights the fact that the doc strings
aren't just ordinary strings but they
really do have a special significance
looking at the init method as you can
see here on line 30 or 30 downwards we can see that the data attributes of the
class a name year artist and tracks but I
incorrectly referred to the album_name
attribute in the doc string so IntelliJ has flag a warning unresolved reference album_
name so it's unusual for the
content of strings to be check for
syntax errors but doc strings are used by
a number of tools including IntelliJ
itself now IntelliJ uses the doc strings
of the built-in modules to produce the
intellisense tooltips that appear when
you're using Python built-in
functions and classes but as the
built-in themselves are actually written in
C IntelliJ can't examine the real source built-ins.py is a stub provider so that you
can checked that various declarations and we have
talked about that before now its easy
discussed this with built-in with
built-ins modules on the screens so I add
a call to the code down here on line
54 to do that so we can see what we are talking
about so type...
again we get that same warning here unexpected
argument so we can command or
control-click on album you get access to
the documentation that way but also
going back and closed it down or come
down here again we click on Help
commander or control click on Help we can
see the definitions in the built-in.py
you can see that there's a
comment field next to it so that the
real signatures are unknown and has been
restored from the doc string but the
doc string doesn't list the functions
arguments as a result that's the reason
why IntelliJ doesn't know that it can
take a parameter and to give the warning
as such so close it down and go back to song.py and specifically we'll fix this
error with the album_name
so I'm going to change that to what it should
have been called with name and we should find that error disappears because of course name
is an attribute defined in
our init method you can see the error then goes away
and also delete this help album which
we no longer need and I what will do
is instead will start typing the new
class so lets type the artist class
out so...and I'm going to make a space again so we can see what we are doing here so...
....
.....
....ok we also want to document the method so....
....
...again this is a good idea
to put that type of documentation in if
that is the case remember when you do
make the change to go back and revise
the documentation so all we are doing here is.....
so theirs not really any checking their....
so the artist class has got 2 data attributes
the string holding the artist's
name and a list containing the album objects
and its a standard way to organize your
record collection now with the albums by
particular group stored together
compilation albums or the songs by
various artists do complicate things in
this design attempts to deal with that
by allowing an artist to be specified
for each song now the major problem with
this design currently is that an artist
object will have a reference to an album
and that album object will also have a
reference to the artist now the problems
that that can cause are to do with
garbage collection so when objects are
no longer used in your Python code they
still take up memory until they're
ultimately destroyed now many more modern
programming languages deal with this by a
system known as garbage collection
and that means that the runtime system
keeps track of variables and reclaims their
memory when they are no longer being used in the program
anymore and that generally means even
when they go out of scope or when there is no
longer anything else referring to them
as an example now if where to create an
album object for say adells 25
it would have a adell as its artist attribute
however the adellt artist object would have 25
in its list of albums so when the
program is no longer using these the
garbage collector might see that
there's still a reference to both
objects each from the other one and then
ultimately not reclaim the memory
for either so you can see how would then would
stall both of those entries sort of
permanently well until your program
finishes and won't claim
the amount of memory space with that said the
Python 3 garbage collector is quite
advanced and can actually cope quite well
with these situations but circular
object references like the one like this that
I just mentioned are still best avoided and
another problem with circular references
like this is that it can seriously
complicates saving the objects to file
or to a database so sticking with the
adell for a moment when we try to write a
adelts artist object then we will go through all the
attributes and save them into disk when we
get to the album's object the program
will go through the album attributes and save
them to disk
in the process it would find an artist
attribute that would then need to be
saved so it will go through all the
attributes and save them to disk in the
process finding a collection of albums
each containing a reference to an artist
object that contains a collection of
objects and so on so Python pickle module
can often cope with this type
of listing but there are limits and it
can also get quite confused he can get
quite confused and I think you can too as the
program in this scenario and in actual
fact I have made it even worse here and
I've done that by also storing the artist as an attribute of each song in the
album's tracklist so lets just open up
an image to see this in more detail so
let's just have a look at the class
structure for what we've come up with
you can see the diagram on the screen so this is a
little bit complicated and there's
really no good reason for storing the
artist object in the song class for
example the artists name would be enough
to allow the actual artist
object to be retrieved
if more details were required so we are gonna take a
look at that later and just to be clear
I'm not saying that you should never
allow circular references in your code
but if you do allow them then it should
be for you know a really good reason with
that said you should also be aware of
what's going on and also of the potential
problems that may arise as a result of
using them so we're going to remove the
circular references a little later but we are gonna leave them in for now so that we can see the program does work as
its currently set up so we are going to go back to the
code and now that our classes are
defined let's move on and start doing
something with them know rather than
doing loads of typing and also because
using classes to pass data is a very good
way to do it I'm gonna read in the
songs information from a text file now we've got
a file albums.zip that can be downloaded from the Resources section
of this video so download that file then
extract the file and then copy that file
to the same directory as your Python
project
file in IntelliJ and again you can do
that too easily determine where you are by just
right clicking the project here
and coming down to reveal in finder which may be
show files or something like that on a
different platform click on that and it
takes us into the folder so I'm gonna put the
actual files in that folder there where my other py files are and  I'm just gonna navigate
to the file location
where I've already downloaded the files the album.zip and unzip and copy it in their
so I'm gonna go to that folder to my downloads
folder
ok I got albums.zip their so I'm going to unzip that
theirs the albums.txt file that we
are going to import I'm going to take a copy of that
go back to the path where my project files are and
pasted that in there and then when I go back to the code in IntelliJ
we got albums.txt just appeared so
the file if we have a look at it you can see
it's a tab separate list of songs with each
song records starting on a new line now
a record here consists of the artists name
the album name the year it was released as
well as the song title now Python will make  light
work of parsing this kind of data all we
really have to do is to split each line at the tab character and convert the result to a
tuple and it's also necessary to
remove the end of line marker from each
line and fortunately there is again
trivial to do in Python so let's
create a function to load this data up and
call it only if the program is executed
as a script so going back to our code again I want to close this text file so here in our
artists class we are not going to put in
the artist class we are going to start typing it as
a separate function outside of the class so....
.....
....
...
.....
...so that should give us our 4 fields and as you can see Python makes light work of something that
would take a lot more code in other
languages.....
...
....and that's our method so lets go back
and confirm this works again we are only running this
if the programs executed as scripts so we are going to do a test here so...
....
...alright lets try running the program
and we should see that its displays the details for
all the songs from the
text file so run song and it seems to
have worked ok we've got a list of the
artists field the album the year as
well as the song title itself so that's
good that is working well.....so you can
see there or you could see their that the fields variables seem to be getting the correct values ok so we got
that working....
so now we got this working I'm gonna finish the video
here in the next video we're going to
move on and enhance a little bit more so
if we are gonna start putting the data into the classes
following naturally from the data so in
other words as each rows are read
we are gonna create a song object then add it
to the album and when a new album is
found in the data the current album is going to be store in the artist album list and a new album objects is going to be created
with that current rows details so lets work on that in the next video